=head1 NAME

Web::Transport::DataURL::Parser - data: URL parser

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::Transport::DataURL::Parser;
  
  $parser = Web::Transport::DataURL::Parser->new;
  $parser->onerror (sub { ... });
  
  $url = Web::URL->parse_string ("data:,...");
  $mime = $parser->parse_url ($url);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::Transport::DataURL::Parser> class is a C<data:> URL
processor.

=head1 METHODS

There are following methods:

=over 4

=item $parser = Web::MIME::Type::Parser->new

Create a new parser.

=item $parser->onerror ($coderef)

=item $coderef = $parser->onerror

Get or set the error handler for the parser.  Any parse error, as well
as warning and additional processing information, is reported to the
handler.  See
<https://github.com/manakai/data-errors/blob/master/doc/onerror.txt>
for details of error handling.

The value should not be set while the parser is running.  If the value
is changed, the result is undefined.

=item $data = $parser->parse_url ($url)

Process a C<data:> URL record (a L<Web::URL> object whose C<scheme> is
C<data>) using the C<data:> URL processor and return the C<data:> URL
struct (L<Web::Transport::DataURL>).  If the process fails, C<undef>
is returned instead.

This method is an implementation of the "C<data:> URL processor" of
the Fetch Standard.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Web::Transport::DataURL>.

=head1 SPECIFICATIONS

Fetch Standard <https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2018 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
