=head1 NAME

Web::MIME::Type::Parser - MIME type parser

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::MIME::Type::Parser;
  
  $parser = Web::MIME::Type::Parser->new;
  $parser->onerror (sub { ... });
  
  $type = $parser->parse_string ($string);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::MIME::Type::Parser> class is a MIME type parser.

=head1 METHODS

There are following methods:

=over 4

=item $type = Web::MIME::Type::Parser->new

Create a new parser.

=item $parser->onerror ($coderef)

=item $coderef = $parser->onerror

Get or set the error handler for parser methods.  Any parse error, as
well as warning and additional processing information, is reported to
the handler.  See
<https://github.com/manakai/data-errors/blob/master/doc/onerror.txt>
for details of error handling.

The value should not be set while the parser is running.  If the value
is changed, the result is undefined.

=item $type = $parser->parse_string ($string)

Parse a character string or byte string as a MIME type and return the
MIME type record (L<Web::MIME::Type>).  If the parsing fails, C<undef>
is returned instead.

This method is an implementation of the "parse a MIME type" steps of
the MIME Sniffing Standard.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Web::MIME::Type>.

=head1 SPECIFICATIONS

MIME Sniffing Standard <https://mimesniff.spec.whatwg.org/>.

A valid MIME type string MUST NOT have duplicate parameter names.

=head1 HISTORY

This module derived from L<Web::MIME::Type>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2007-2018 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
