=head1 NAME

Web::Transport::Base64 - Base64 for the Web

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::Transport::Base64;
  
  $encoded = encode_web_base64 $bytes;
  $bytes = decode_web_base64 $string;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::Transport::Base64> module defines an API to encode or
decode byte string using Base64.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

These functions are exported by default:

=over 4

=item $string = encode_web_base64 $bytes

Encode a byte string using Base64 and return the result string
(i.e. Base64-encoded ASCII string).  The argument must not be a
utf8-flagged string.

This function is an implementation of the "forgiving-base64 encode"
operation of the Infra Standard.

=item $bytes = decode_web_base64 $string

Decode a byte or character string using Base64 and return the result
byte string.  If the input is not interpretable as a Base64-encoded
string, C<undef> is returned instead.

This function is an implementation of the "forgiving-base64 decode"
operation of the Infra Standard.

=item $string = encode_web_base64url $bytes

Encode a byte string using base64url and return the result string
(i.e. base64url-encoded ASCII string).  The argument must not be a
utf8-flagged string.

=item $bytes = decode_web_base64url $string

Decode a byte or character string using base64url and return the
result byte string.  If the input is not interpretable as a
base64url-encoded string, C<undef> is returned instead.

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCY

This module is a wrapper of L<MIME::Base64>, which is a core module of
Perl.

=head1 SPECIFICATIONS

Infra Standard <https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#forgiving-base64>.

base64url
<https://wiki.suikawiki.org/n/base64url$659#section-Base64-%E3%81%AE%E4%BB%95%E6%A7%98%E6%9B%B8%E3%81%A8%E3%83%90%E3%83%AA%E3%82%A8%E3%83%BC%E3%82%B7%E3%83%A7%E3%83%B3%E2%80%A8URL-%E5%AE%89%E5%85%A8-Base64%E2%80%A8%E5%87%A6%E7%90%86>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2018-2019 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
