=head1 NAME

Web::Transport::CachedResolver - Resolve domain names, with caching

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::Transport::PlatformResolver;
  use Web::Transport::CachedResolver;
  use Web::DateTime::Clock;
  $resolver = Web::Transport::CachedResolver->new_from_resolver
      (Web::Transport::Resolver->new,
       Web::DateTime::Clock->monotonic_clock);
  $resolver->resolve (Web::Host->parse_string ("example.com"))->then (sub {
    warn defined $_[0] && $_[0]->stringify;
  });

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::Transport::CachedResolver> module defines a name resolver
which has a 60-seconds cache.

This module is a resolver (see L<Web::Transport/"RESOLVERS">).

=head1 METHOD

Following methods are available:

=over 4

=item $resolver = Web::Transport::CachedResolver->new_from_resolver_and_clock ($resolver, $clock)

Create a resolver.

The first argument must be a "real" resolver.  It must implement the
C<resolve> method which is compatible with
L<Web::Transport::PlatformResolver>'s C<resolve>.

The second argument must be a monotonic clock, e.g. C<<
Web::DateTime::Clock->monotonic_clock >>.

=item $promise = $resolver->resolve ($host, no_cache => $boolean, debug => $mode)

Resolve a domain.

The first argument must be a host (L<Web::Host>) to resolve.

Additionally, named arguments can be specified.

The C<no_cache> argument specifies whether any previously cached
result should be ignored or not.  Note that, even when C<no_cache>
option is specified, the result of this resolution will be cached.

The C<debug> argument specifies the debug mode.  The default value is
0 (not in the debug mode).  See C<WEBUA_DEBUG> section in
L<Web::Transport> for available mode values.

The method returns a promise (L<Promise>), which is to be resolved
with the result.  If the host is a domain and is successfully resolved
into an IP address, or the host is an IP address, the promise is
resolved with a host (L<Web::Host>) representing that IP address.
Otherwise, it is resolved with C<undef>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Web::Transport::PlatformResolver>.

=head1 SPECIFICATION

Web Transport Processing
<https://wiki.suikawiki.org/n/Web%20Transport%20Processing>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2016 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
