=head1 NAME

Web::Transport::ConnectionClient - A connection-oriented HTTP client

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::Transport::ConnectionClient;
  $client = Web::Transport::ConnectionClient->new_from_host (q<server.test>);
  
  ## First request
  $client->request (
    url => Web::URL->parse_url (q<https://server.test/p1>), ...
  )->then (sub {
    my $res = $_[0];
    warn $res->body_bytes;
    
    ## Second request
    return $client->request (
      url => Web::URL->parse_url (q<https://server.test/p2>), ...
    );
  })->then (sub {
    return $client->close;
  });

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::Transport::ConnectionClient> module is a
connection-oriented HTTP client.

It can only be used to send requests to a specific origin.  It does
not support HTTP redirects by design.

=head1 METHODS

There are following methods:

=over 4

=item $client = Web::Transport::ConnectionClient->new_from_host ($string)

Create a new client object, which is associated with a origin
(C<https>, I<$string>, C<undef>).  That is, a client for the specified
host using HTTPS with port C<443> is created.

The argument must be a string, which is either a domain, an IPv4
address, or an IPv6 address enclosed by C<[> and C<]>.  They don't
have to be in their canonicalized form.  IDNs are also allowed.

=item $client = Web::Transport::ConnectionClient->new_from_url ($url)

Create a new client object, which is associated with a URL's origin
and path.

The argument must be a URL record object (L<Web::URL>).  It's origin
must be a tuple origin (typically an C<http:> or C<https:> URL).

The path of the URL is used as the "prefix" of the URL path used for
the requests (See L<Web::Transport/"REQUEST OPTIONS">' C<path>).

Note that anything other than the origin and path of the URL is
ignored.

Example:

  $client = Web::Transport::ConnectionClient->new_from_url
      (Web::URL->parse_url (q<https://server.test>));
  $client->request (path => []); # https://server.test/
  $client->request (path => ['a', 'b']); # https://server.test/a/b
  $client->request (url => Web::URL->parse_string (q<https://server.test/x>));

Example:

  $client = Web::Transport::ConnectionClient->new_from_url
      (Web::URL->parse_url (q<https://server.test/z>));
  $client->request (path => []); # https://server.test/z/
  $client->request (path => ['a', 'b']); # https://server.test/z/a/b
  $client->request (url => Web::URL->parse_string (q<https://server.test/x>));

=item $promise = $client->request (url => ..., ...)

Send a request and return a promise (L<Promise>), which is to be
resolved with the result.

The arguments are name/value pairs, as described in
L<Web::Transport/"REQUEST OPTIONS">.  At minimum, the C<url> argument
must be specified.  It is a URL record object (L<Web::URL>).  It must
have same origin as the client's origin (i.e. the origin of the
argument to the C<new_from_url> method).

The promise is resolved with XXX.

This method creates an HTTP connection, if there is no existing
connection, or the existing connection has terminated for some reason.
Otherwise the existing connection is used to send the new request.  If
the connection is in use, the new request is delayed until any current
and enqueued request has been processed unless HTTP/2 is available.

=item $promise = $client->close

Close any existing connection.  This method must be explicitly invoked
whenever the client has sent some request.

If the connection is in use, it is closed only after any current and
enqueued request are processed.

The method returns a promise, which is resolved once any connection
has closed.

=item $client->proxy_manager ($pm)

=item $pm = $client->proxy_manager

Get or set the proxy manager used to establish connections.
Initially, a proxy manager which takes standard environment variables
into account (i.e. L<Web::Transport::ENVProxyManager>) is set as the
proxy manager.

This option must be set before the first invocation of the C<request>
method.

=item $client->resolver ($resolver)

=item $resolver = $client->resolver

Get or set the name resolver used to establish connections.
Initially, a resolver using system's name resolution API
(L<Web::Transport::PlatformResolver>) wrapped by DNS caching
(L<Web::Transport::CachedResolver>) is set as the resolver.

This option must be set before the first invocation of the C<request>
method.

=item $client->tls_options ({...})

=item $hashref = $client->tls_options

XXX

This option must be set before the first invocation of the C<request>
method.

=item $client->max_size ($integer)

=item $integer = $client->max_size

Get or set the maximum size of the (uncompressed) body of the
response, in bytes.  The initial value is -1, i.e. no limit is set.

This option must be set before the first invocation of the C<request>
method.

=item $client->last_resort_timeout ($seconds)

=item $seconds = $client->last_resort_timeout

Get or set the last-resort timeout value, in seconds.  In most
applications, this value does not have to be changed.  It is used to
avoid the application blocked by a server which returns infinite
response body.  If your application has specific realtimeness
requirement, use your own timer to abort the request, rather than
reusing this timer.

This option must be set before the first invocation of the C<request>
method.

=item $origin = $client->origin

Return the origin (L<Web::Origin>) of the connection.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

This module supports C<WEBUA_DEBUG>.  See L<Web::Transport>.

When the default C<resolver> is used, proxy environment variables
C<http_proxy>, C<https_proxy>, C<ftp_proxy>, and C<no_proxy> are taken
into account.  See L<Web::Transport::ENVProxyManager>.

=head1 SPECIFICATION

Web Transport Processing
<https://wiki.suikawiki.org/n/Web%20Transport%20Processing>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2016 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
