=head1 NAME

Web::Transport::FindPort - Find a listenable TCP port

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::Transport::FindPort;
  warn Web::Transport::FindPort->find_listenable_port;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::Transport::FindPort> module provides methods to obtain a
TCP port number that can be listened by a new server process.

=head1 METHODS

All methods are class methods.

=over 4

=item Web::Transport::FindPort->find_listenable_port

Returns a listenable TCP port number.  If no port is available, the
method dies.

Note that the returned port might not be really available for
listening by the server process, if the port is listened by another
process after the testing of this method.

=item Web::Transport::FindPort->is_listenable_port(PORT)

Returns whether the given I<PORT> can be listened or not.

=item Web::Transport::FindPort->clear_cache

Clears the cached list of known non-listenable ports.  The class
caches the list of known non-listenable ports.  Any port returned by
C<find_listenable_port> as "listenable" is also marked as
non-listenable (although the port is still listenable until it is
really listened by some process from the viewpoint of the TCP/IP
protocol stack).

=back

=head1 HISTORY

This module was originally released as L<Net::TCP::FindPort> version
1.0 (2010-08-05).

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba (id:wakabatan) <wakabatan@hatena.ne.jp>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2010 Hatena <http://www.hatena.ne.jp/>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
