=head1 NAME

Web::Transport::HashrefResolver - Resolve domain names using a hash reference

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::Transport::HashrefResolver;
  $resolver = Web::Transport::HashrefResolver->new_from_hashref ({
    'example.com' => Web::Host->parse_string ('127.0.0.1'),
  });
  $resolver->resolve (Web::Host->parse_string ("example.com"))->then (sub {
    warn defined $_[0] && $_[0]->stringify;
  });

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::Transport::HashrefResolver> module acts as a simple wrapper
for a hash reference to implement the name resolution API.

This module is a resolver (see L<Web::Transport/"RESOLVERS">).

=head1 METHOD

Following methods are available:

=over 4

=item $resolver = Web::Transport::HashrefResolver->new_from_hashref ($hashref)

Create a resolver.

=item $promise = $resolver->resolve ($host, $name => $value, ...)

Resolve a domain.

The first argument must be a host (L<Web::Host>) to resolve.

Additionally, following named arguments can be specified:

=over 4

=item no_cache => $boolean

Ignored by this resolver.

=item signal => $signal

Ignored by this resolver (for now, at least).

=item debug => $debug

Ignored by this resolver.

=back

The method returns a promise (L<Promise>), which is to be resolved
with the result.  If the host is a domain and is successfully resolved
into an IP address, or the host is an IP address, the promise is
resolved with a host (L<Web::Host>) representing that IP address.
Otherwise, it is resolved with C<undef>.

That is, if the hash reference with which the resolver is created has
a key/value pair whose key is the argument's C<to_ascii> method's
return value and value is a C<Web::Host> object whose C<is_ip> method
returns true, the argument is resolved into that value.  If the hash
reference has no such pair and the argument's C<is_ip> method returns
true, the argument is resolved into the argument itself.  In other
words, IP addresses are resolved into theirselves by default but can
be overridden by adding pairs into the hash reference.  If the hash
reference has no such pair and the argument's C<is_ip> method returns
false, the argument is resolved into C<undef>.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2016-2019 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
