=head1 NAME

Web::Transport::PlatformInfo - Defaults of platform-dependent configurations

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::Transport::PlatformInfo;
  $info = Web::Transport::PlatformInfo->new_default;
  $info_mobile = Web::Transport::PlatformInfo->new_mobile;
  warn $info->user_agent;
  warn $info_mobile->user_agent;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::Transport::PlatformInfo> class is a typical implementation
of the underlying platform information object (See
L<Web::Transport/"UNDERLYING PLATFORM INFORMATION OBJECT">).

=head1 METHODS

There are following methods:

=over 4

=item $info = Web::Transport::PlatformInfo->new_default

Create and return a default platform information object.

=item $info = Web::Transport::PlatformInfo->new_mobile

Create and return a default platform information object for mobile
browsers.

=item $info = Web::Transport::PlatformInfo->new_nonbrowser

Create and return a default platform information object for
"non-browser" browsers.  (In general this method should not be used.
The C<new_default> method is more appropriate for most user agents,
including non-browser user agents.)

=item $info = Web::Transport::PlatformInfo->new_from_device_os_navigator ($device, $os, $navigator)

Create and return a platform information object.

The first argument is the device type, i.e. C<desktop> (desktop
browsers), C<tablet> (tablet browsers), C<mobile> (smartphone
browsers), or C<nonbrowser> (user agents incompatible with browsers).
The second argument is the OS, i.e. C<windows>, C<mac>, C<ios>, or
C<linux>.  The third argument is the navigator compatibility mode,
i.e. C<chrome>, C<webkit>, or C<gecko>.

If the arguments are invalid comabinations of values, an exception is
thrown.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2018-2019 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
