=head1 NAME

Web::Transport::ProxyServerConnection - HTTP proxy server connection

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  tcp_server $host, $port, sub {
    my $con = Web::Transport::ProxyServerConnection
        ->new_from_aeargs_and_opts ([@_], {...});
    $con->completed->then (sub {
      warn "Client disconnected and proxy done";
    });
  };

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::Transport::ProxyServerConnection> module is an
implementation of HTTP proxy server.  It wraps an HTTP server's TCP
connection socket and forward any incoming request to upstream.

=head1 METHODS

See L<Web::Transport::GenericServerConnection/METHODS>.

=head1 REQUEST HANDLER

A request handler can be specified to the C<handle_request> option of
the hash reference specified to the constructor of the proxy server.

A request handler, if specified, is invoked whenever the proxy server
has received a request from a client and just before the request is
forwarded to the upstream server.

A request handler is a code reference.  The code is expected to return
a hash reference, or a promise (e.g. L<Promise>) that is to be
fulfilled with a hash reference.

The code is invoked with an argument, that is a hash reference.  The
hash reference can be returned by the code if the proxy should forward
the request as is.

These hash references have following key/value pairs:

=over 4

=item info => $info (argument only)

The metadata of the underlying (downstream) HTTP connection.  XXX

=item request => $request (argument / return value)

A request hash reference.  XXX

The argument contains the request that can be forwarded to the
upstream (i.e. after any removal of connection-specific headers).

If the returned hash reference does not contain C<response> or
C<error>, the C<request> is used to send a request to the upstream
server.

=item client_options => $client_options (return value only)

A hash reference of additional client options, as described for the
C<client> method of the handler API object (L</"HANDLER API OBJECT">),
used to obtain the client for making a request with the C<request>
argument after the completion of the request handler.

=item response => $response (return value only)

A response hash reference.  XXX

If the returned hash reference contains C<response>, it is used to
send a response to the downstream client.  No request is made to the
upstream server.

=item error => $error (return value only)

An exception object.  It can be any Perl C<defined> value, though
L<Web::DOM::Error> or its subclass's instance is desired.

When the proxy server has to abort something associated with the
handling of the request in question, the exception is used as the
error reason.

If the returned hash reference has C<error> and does not have
C<response>, an error response is generated from the exception.  If
exception's C<name> is C<Protocol error> or C<Perl I/O error>, a
C<504> response is generated.  Otherwise, if exception's C<name> is
C<HTTP parse error>, a C<502> response is generated.  Otherwise, a
C<500> response is generated.  No request is made to the upstream
server.

=item api => $api (argument only)

The handler API object (L</"HANDLER API OBJECT">) for this invocation
of the request handler.

=item data => $value (return value only)

Any application-specific data.  This field can be used to associate
request and response handler.  Any Perl scalar value can be specified.

=back

It is important that the proxy server does not allow the upstream
server being the proxy server itself.  However, this is in fact a
difficult problem: a domain might be resolved into the proxy server's
IP address; a proxy server of the proxy server might be misconfigured
as the proxy server itself; an upstream server might be forward the
forwarded request to the proxy server (i.e. indirect loop); and so on.
It's request handler's responsibility to reject any abuse or wrong
usage of the proxy server.

=head1 RESPONSE HANDLER

A response handler can be specified to the C<handle_response> option
of the hash reference specified to the constructor of the proxy
server.

A response handler, if specified, is invoked whenever the proxy server
has received a response from an upstream server and just before the
response is forwarded to the downstream client.  It is not invoked
when the request handler returns a response (or an error).

A response handler is a code reference.  The code is expected to
return a hash reference, or a promise (e.g. L<Promise>) that is to be
fulfilled with a hash reference.

The code is invoked with an argument, that is a hash reference.  The
hash reference can be returned by the code if the proxy should forward
the response as is.

These hash references have following key/value pairs:

=over 4

=item info => $info (argument only)

The metadata of the underlying (downstream) HTTP connection.  XXX

=item response => $response (argument / return value)

A response hash reference.  XXX

If the returned hash reference contains C<response>, it is used to
send a response to the downstream client.

=item error => $error (return value only)

An exception object.  It can be any Perl C<defined> value, though
L<Web::DOM::Error> or its subclass's instance is desired.

When the proxy server has to abort something associated with the
handling of the response in question, the exception is used as the
error reason.

If the returned hash reference has C<error> and does not have
C<response>, an error response is generated from the exception.  If
exception's C<name> is C<Protocol error> or C<Perl I/O error>, a
C<504> response is generated.  Otherwise, if exception's C<name> is
C<HTTP parse error>, a C<502> response is generated.  Otherwise, a
C<500> response is generated.

=item api => $api (argument only)

The handler API object (L</"HANDLER API OBJECT">) for this invocation
of the response handler.

=item data => $value (argument only)

The application-specific data specified by the request handler, if
any.  The value is not defined if no data were specified.

This can be used to associate request and response handlers.  For
example, to save the response data using the file name extracted from
request target URL, the request handler should store the URL as data
and the response handler should extract it from data.

=item closed => $promise (argument only)

A promise (L<Promise> object) which is fulfilled once the response in
question has been sent.

=back

=head1 HANDLER API OBJECT

The C<api> value of the argument to request or response handlers are a
B<handler API object>, which provides convinient methods for use
within handlers:

=over 4

=item $client = $api->client ($url, $client_options, $api_options)

Return a client (L<Web::Transport::BasicClient>) that is ready to send
a request.

The first argument must be a URL (L<Web::URL> object) of the target of
the request.

The second argument, if specified, must be a hash reference of
additional client options (see L<Web::Transport::BasicClient/"CLIENT
OPTIONS">) used to create a client.  By default a set of client
options appropriate for the proxy server is used, taking the C<client>
option of the proxy server's constructor argument into account, but
this argument can be used to override them.

The third argument, if specified, must be a hash reference of
additional options used to choose a client.  The C<key> option, if
specified, sets the short identifier for the client.  When the
C<client> method is invoked twice with same orign, client options, and
C<key>, the same client is returned if possible.  When the method is
invoked with different C<key>, different client is returned.  When the
proxy itself fetches a resource, it uses the client whose key is the
empty string, which is the default key.  The proxy discards the empty
string keyed client after the process of the relevant request/response
pairs.  If the handlers want to avoid the client discarded, they
should use their own keys.

This is effectively equivalent to invoking the C<new_from_url> method
of the L<Web::Transport::BasicClient> module but this method first
looks into the connection pool of the proxy server with appropriate
client options.  Therefore, if a request or response handler wants to
fetch a resource as part of response construction, this method should
be used exclusively rather than other HTTP client APIs.

=item $out_headers = $api->filter_headers ($in_headers, $name => $value, ...)

Remove specified kinds of headers.  The first argument must be a
canonical headers array reference.  The remaining arguments must be
zero or more key/value pairs of kinds:

=over 4

=item conditional => $boolean

Headers in the "conditional" category, such as C<If-Modified-Since>.

=item proxy_removed => $boolean

Headers removed by proxies upon forwarding, such as
C<Transfer-Encoding>, including headers specified in any |Connection:|
header.

=item names => {$name => $boolean, ...}

Headers with specified names.  The value must be a hash reference,
whose keys are header names in lowercase and values are boolean true
values.

=back

It returns a new canonical headers array reference.

=item $api->note ($message, level => $debug)

Provide an informative or debug message for application's user or
developer.  The first argument must be a short character string.  The
remaining arguments must be zero or more key/value pairs of options.

The C<level> option is the verbosity level of the message; the message
is reported to the standard error output only when the debug level
(server's C<debug> option's value) is greater than or equal to the
C<level> value; the default is zero, i.e. always reported.

=back

=head1 FEATURES NOT SUPPORTED BY THIS MODULE

The module does not support HTTP proxy authentication.  It can be
implemented within a request handler.

The module does not support HTTP caches.  It can be implemented by
consulting with the cache for any cached response within a request
handler and caching the received response within a response handler.

The module intentionally does not add HTTP C<Via:>, C<Forwarded:>, and
C<X-Forwarded-*:> headers to forwarded requests and responses.  It can
be added within request and response handlers.

This module does not support HTTP C<TRACE> method.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<AnyEvent::Socket>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2016-2018 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
