=head1 NAME

Web::Transport::PKI::Certificate - A certificate

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::Transport::PKI::Certificate> module represents an X.509
certificate for PKIX.

=head1 METHODS

There are following methods:

=over 4

=item $int = $cert->version

Return the version of the certificate.  For a valid certificate, it is
either C<0> (v1), C<1> (v2), or C<2> (v3).

=item $bigint = $cert->serial_number

Return the serial number of the certificate, as a C<Math::BigInt>
object.

=item $dt? = $cert->not_before

Return the not before value of the validity of the certificate.  If
there is no valid not before value, C<undef> is returned.  Otherwise,
a L<Web::DateTime> object representing the timestamp is returned.

=item $dt? = $cert->not_after

Return the not after value of the validity of the certificate.  If
there is no valid not after value, C<undef> is returned.  Otherwise, a
L<Web::DateTime> object representing the timestamp is returned.

=item $name = $cert->issuer

Return the issuer of the certificate, as a
L<Web::Transport::PKI::Name> object.

=item $name = $cert->subject

Return the subject of the certificate, as a
L<Web::Transport::PKI::Name> object.

=item [$value1, $value2, ...] = $cert->san_hosts

Return an array reference of the hosts in the subject alternative
names extension of the certificate.

A C<dNSName> value (a domain or a wildcard domain) is represented by a
character string in the array.

A C<iPAddress> value (an IPv4 or IPv6 address) is represented by a
L<Web::Host> object.

=item $boolean? = $cert->ca

Return the cA of the basic constraints extension of the certificate.
If the basic constraints extension is not found, C<undef> is returned.
Otherwise, the value of the cA is returned.

=item $integer? = $cert->path_len_constraint

Return the pathLenConstraint of the basic constraints extension of the
certificate.  If the basic constraints extension is not found,
C<undef> is returned.  Otherwise, the value of the pathLenConstraint
is returned.

=item $boolean? = $cert->key_usage ($field)

Return whether the I<$field> bit is set in the key usage extension of
the certificate.  If the key usage extension is not found, C<undef> is
returned.  Otherwise, the value of the field is returned.

The first argument must be the field name, i.e. one of the following
values: C<digitalSignature>, C<nonRepudiation>, C<contentCommitment>,
C<keyEncipherment>, C<dataEncipherment>, C<keyAgreement>,
C<keyCertSign>, C<cRLSign>, C<encipherOnly>, and C<decipherOnly>.

=item $boolean = $cert->extended_key_usage ($field)

Return whether the I<$field> is set in the extended key usage
extension of the certificate.

The first argument must be an object identifier (OID), or its short
name or long name known to the implementaion, such as C<serverAuth>
and C<clientAuth>.

=item [$string1, $string2, ...] = $cert->crl_distribution_urls

Return the CRL distribution point URLs of the certifciate.  It returns
an array references of character strings represeting the URLs.

=item $string? = $cert->aia_ocsp_url

Return the OCSP URL of the Authority Information Access extension of
the certificate, if any, or C<undef>.  If specified, it returns a
character string representing the URL.

=item $string? = $cert->aia_ca_issuers_url

Return the CA issuers URL of the Authority Information Access
extension of the certificate, if any, or C<undef>.  If specified, it
returns a character string representing the URL.

=item [$string1, $string2, ...] = $cert->policy_oids

Return the policy identifiers of the certifciation policy extension of
the certificate, as an array reference of OIDs in the dotted notation.

=item $string? = $cert->cps_url

Return the CPS URL specified as a policy qualifer of a certifciation
policy of the certificate, if any, or C<undef>.  If specifeid, it
returns a character string representing the URL.

=item $string? = $cert->policy_user_notice_text

Return the display text of the user notice of a policy qualifier of a
certification policy of the certifcate as a character string, if any,
or C<undef>.

=item $string = $cert->to_pem

Return the C<.pem> serialization of the certificate.

=item $text = $cert->debug_info

Return a short string that summarises the certificate, which should be
useful for developments.

=back

=head1 SPECIFICATIONS

RFC 5280, Internet X.509 Public Key Infrastructure Certificate and
Certificate Revocation List (CRL) Profile
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5280>.

RFC 7468, Textual Encodings of PKIX, PKCS, and CMS Structures
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7468>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2018 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
