=head1 NAME

Web::Transport::PKI::Name - A directory name

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::Transport::PKI::Name> module represents a name in
directories.

=head1 METHODS

There are following methods:

=over 4

=item $name = Web::Transport::PKI::Name->create ($input)

Create a new C<Web::Transport::PKI::Name> object.

If the argument is an C<undef> value, an empty name is returned.

If the argument is a C<Web::Transport::PKI::Name> object, the argument
itself is returned unchanged.

If the argument is a hash reference, a name with the content of the
hash is returned.  Any key is interprted as an object identifier (OID)
in the dotted notation (e.g. C<2.5.4.6>), the short name of an object
(e.g. C<CN>), or the long name of an object (e.g C<commonName>).  If
an invalid or unknown key is specified, an exception is thrown.  For
portability, only limited set of names (such as C<CN>, C<C>, and C<O>)
should be used and any other object should be represented in the
dotted notaion.  If the value is an C<undef> value, the key/value pair
is ignored.  Otherwise, the value is interpreted as the text value for
the corresponding key.  It is encoded as a C<PrintableString>, if
possible, or as a C<UTF8String> otherwise.  The key/value pairs in the
hash are encoded as distinct C<RelativeDistinguishedName>s in order
determined by the implementation.

=item $text = $name->debug_info

Return a short string that summarises the name, which should be useful
for developments.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2018 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
