=head1 NAME

Web::Transport - Transport layer protocols for the Web

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These modules contain implementations of various protocols forming the
Web platform's transport layer.

Following protocols are supported by these modules and underlying
platform (partially or fully; see documentation of relevant modules):
TCP (for IPv4 and IPv6), UNIX domain sockets, TLS (including SNI, OCSP
stapling), HTTP (including Cookies,
C<application/x-www-form-urlencoded>, C<multipart/form-data>, Basic
authentication, OAuth 1.0, OAuth 2.0 Bearer, C<CONNECT>), SOCKS4,
SOCKS5, DNS.

=head1 MODULES

There are following modules that expose public APIs:

=over 4

=item L<Web::Transport::ConnectionClient>

A connection-oriented HTTP client.

=item L<Web::Transport::WSClient>

A WebSocket client.

=item L<Web::Transport::PSGIServerConnection>

A PSGI interface of HTTP server.

=item L<Web::Transport::PlatformResolver>

A name resolver using system's resolver.

=item L<Web::Transport::CachedResolver>

A DNS cache.

=item L<Web::Transport::ENVProxyManager>

An environment variable based proxy manager.

=item L<Web::MIME::Type>

MIME types.

=back

=head1 REQUEST OPTIONS

For the C<request> method of L<Web::Transport::ConnectionClient>
objects and the C<new> class method of L<Web::Transport::WSClient>,
following key/value pairs can be used to specify the parameters of the
request to send:

=over 4

=item url => $url

Specify the request URL.  If specified, the value must be a
L<Web::URL> object.

The scheme of the URL must be one of C<http>, C<https>, or C<ftp> for
L<Web::Transport::ConnectionClient>, or C<ws> or C<wss> for
L<Web::Transport::WSClient>.

Any username, password, or fragment of the URL is ignored.

Either C<url> or C<path> option must be specified.

=item path => [$seg1, $seg2, ...]

Specify the path segments of the request URL.  If specified, the value
must be an array reference of zero or more character strings.  They
are encoded in UTF-8 and then concatenated with C</>.

If a "prefix" is defined by the context, the path segments given by
this option is appended to the prefix.

When the C<url> option is specified, this option is ignored.

This option is not available for L<Web::Transport::WSClient>.

=item method => $string

Specify the HTTP request method.  Note that HTTP request methods are
case-sensitive.  If not specified, C<GET> is used.

This option is not available for L<Web::Transport::WSClient>.

=item headers => {$string => $string, ...}

Specify HTTP headers.  The value must be a hash reference, whose keys
are header names and values are corresponding header values.  If a
value is an array reference, the array's items are used as the header
values (i.e. multiple headers with same name are generated).  Header
names are case-insensitive.

=item cookies => {$string => $string, ...}

Specify cookies, to be included in the C<Cookie:> header.  The value
must be a hash reference of zero or more key/value pairs, where keys
are cookie names and values are corresponding cookie values.  Any key
whose value is C<undef> is ignored.

Names and values must be strings of zero or more characters.  They are
encoded in UTF-8 and percent-encoded before included in the header
value.  If this behavior is inappropriate, use C<headers> option
instead.

This option also adds C<Cache-Control: no-store> and C<Pragma:
no-store> headers.

=item params => {$string => $string, ...}

Parameters to be included in the request.

The value must be a hash reference of zero or more key/value pairs,
where keys are parameter names and values are corresponding parameter
values.

Parameter names and values must be strings of zero or more characters.
Parameter values can be either a string or an array reference of zero
or more strings, representing parameter values sharing same parameter
name.  Any parameter whose value is C<undef> is ignored.

They are encoded in the C<application/x-www-form-urlencoded> format
(or C<multipart/form-data>, if C<files> option is also specified) in
UTF-8.  If the C<method> is C<POST> and there is no conflicting
options, they are put into the request body.  Otherwise, they are
appended to the request URL.

=item files => {$string => $file, ...}

Files to be included in the request.

The value must be a hash reference of zero or more key/value pairs,
where keys are parameter names and values are corresponding files.

Parameter names must be strings of zero or more characters.

Files can be either a hash reference or an array reference of zero or
more hash references, representing files sharing same parameter name.
Any pair whose value is C<undef> is ignored.

A file hash reference must contain a C<body_ref> key, whose value must
be a reference to a scalar containing zero or more bytes, i.e. the
file content.

A file hash reference can also contain C<mime_type> key, whose value
is a MIME type string (C<Content-Type:> header value) and
C<mime_filename> key, whose value is a file name string
(C<Content-Disposition:> header's C<filename> parameter value).  Their
defaults, used when the key is omitted or the value is C<undef>, are
C<application/octet-stream> and the empty string, respectively.

They are encoded in the C<multipart/form-data> format in UTF-8.

This option is not available for L<Web::Transport::WSClient>.

=item basic_auth => [$userid, $password]

Specifies the credentials of the C<Basic> authentication.  The value
must be an array reference of two strings, which are used as user ID
and password.

=item bearer => $string

Specifies the credentials of the C<Bearer> authentication.

=item oauth1 => [$string, $string, $string, $string]

If a non-C<undef> value is specified, the request is to be signed
using OAuth 1.0 C<HMAC-SHA1> signature method.

The value must be an array reference of strings, which are consumer
key, consumer secret, access token, and access token secret.  They
must be specified even though they can be empty strings.

This option also adds C<Cache-Control: no-store> and C<Pragma:
no-store> headers.

=item oauth1_container => 'authorization' | 'query' | 'body'

Where to add OAuth 1.0 request parameters.  This option is ignored
unless the C<oauth1> option is also specified.

The value C<authorization> designates the HTTP C<Authorization:>
header.

The value C<query> designates the URL query component.

The value C<body> designates the request body.

If this option is not specified, or C<undef> is specified, parameters
are added to the HTTP C<Authorization:> header, unless there is
another C<Authorization:> header, in which case they are added to the
same slot as C<params>.

=item oauth_verifier => $string

The OAuth 1.0 C<oauth_verifier> request parameter value.  If a
non-C<undef> value is specified and the C<oauth1> option is also
specified, this value is taken into account as a request parameter.
Otherwise this option is ignored.

This option is not available for L<Web::Transport::WSClient>.

=item oauth_callback => $string

The OAuth 1.0 C<oauth_callback> request parameter value.  If a
non-C<undef> value is specified and the C<oauth1> option is also
specified, this value is taken into account as a request parameter.
Otherwise this option is ignored.

This option is not available for L<Web::Transport::WSClient>.

=item superreload => $boolean

If true, C<Cache-Control: no-cache> and C<Pragma: no-store> headers
are added.

=item body => $bytes

The request body.  If a non-C<undef> value is specified, it must be a
string of zero or more bytes.

This option is not available for L<Web::Transport::WSClient>.

=back

=head2 Relevant specifications

Fetch Standard <https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/>.

URL Standard <https://url.spec.whatwg.org/>.

Encoding Standard <https://encoding.spec.whatwg.org/>.

When a text is encoded in UTF-8, the UTF-8 encode steps of the
Encoding Standard MUST be used.

RFC 6265, HTTP State Management Mechanism
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6265>.

RFC 5849, The OAuth 1.0 Protocol
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5849>.

HTML Standard <https://html.spec.whatwg.org/>.

=head1 PROXY MANAGERS

XXX

There are following proxy managers in this repository:
L<Web::Transport::ENVProxyManager> and
L<Web::Transport::ConstProxyManager>.

=head1 PROXY CONFIGURATIONS

A B<proxy configuration list> is ...

XXX

host => ...

XXX

For a proxy configuration returned by a proxy manager, the value must
be a L<Web::Host> object.  For a proxy configuration used as part of
an input to the L<Web::Transport::ConstProxyManager>'s constructor,
the value may be a string which is a valid host string.

debug => $mode

Specify the debug mode.  The default value is the C<WEBUA_DEBUG>
environment variable's value.  See C<WEBUA_DEBUG> section for
available mode values.

This option is only applicable to C<http> and C<https> protocols.


=head1 RESOLVERS

XXX

There are following resolvers in this repository:
L<Web::Transport::PlatformResolver>,
L<Web::Transport::CachedResolver>.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE

The C<WEBUA_DEBUG> and C<WEBSERVER_DEBUG> environment variables can be
used to enable the debug mode of client and server modules,
respectively.  If a true value is specified, debug output, such as
some of network input and output, are printed to the standard error
output.  If its value is greater than C<1>, more verbose messages are
printed.

=head1 DEPENDENCY

These module requires Perl 5.10 or later.  They require several core
modules such as L<Digest::SHA>.

They require L<AnyEvent> and L<Net::SSLeay>.  The L<Net::SSLeay>
module requires OpenSSL or equivalent (e.g. LibreSSL).  For Web
compatibility and security, OpenSSL version must be latest enough.

They also require following modules (which are submodules of this Git
repository):

=over 4

=item L<Promise> <https://github.com/wakaba/perl-promise>

=item modules from perl-web-url repository <https://github.com/manakai/perl-web-url>, e.g. L<Web::URL> L<Web::Host>, and L<Web::Origin>

=item modules from perl-web-encodings package <https://github.com/manakai/perl-web-encodings>, e.g. L<Web::Encoding>

=item modules from perl-web-datetime package <https://github.com/manakai/perl-web-datetime>, e.g. L<Web::DateTime::Parser>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Some of modules derived from various earlier effort on these areas.
See documentations of modules and comments in source codes for more
information.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2009-2013 Hatena <https://www.hatena.ne.jp/>.

Copyright 2014-2016 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
